= keypad

* http://github.com/adrianomitre/keypad

== DESCRIPTION:

It provides methods to determine all sequences of letters corresponding to a
given sequence of digits according to the standard phone keypad. The "inverse"
function is also provided, which finds the digits associated to a certain word.

== SYNOPSIS:

The Keypad::words method determine all sequences of letters (not necessarily
valid words in any specific languages) associated to a given sequence of digits
according to standard phone keypad.

If a dictionary is available, filtering out invalid words is
as trivial as
   
  valid_words = Keypad::words(_number_).select {|w| _dictionary_.includes? w }

or

  valid_words = []
  Keypad::words(_number_) do {|w| valid_words << w if _dictionary_.includes? w }

which avoids explict pre-computation of the cartesian product array.

Finally, the converse functionality is also provided. The Keypad::number method
finds the sequences of digits associated with a given word according to standard
phone keypad.

== FEATURES:

* Tested with all major Ruby implementations (see History.rdoc for the listing).

== REQUIREMENTS:

* {cartesian gem}[http://adrianomitre.github.com/cartesian/website/index.html]

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install keypad

== REFERENCES

Similar systems and more information can be found at
* PhoneSpell -- http://www.phonespell.org
* DialABC -- http://www.dialabc.com

== ACKOWLEDGEMENTS

I was driven to coding this after reading the beggining of
a post entitled "Google Splash" from Ernest Turro's blog.
One can read the post [here](http://ernest.turro.cat/blog/2006/08/25/google-splash).

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Adriano Mitre

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
